Advancements and challenges of fuel cell integration in electric vehicles: A comprehensive analysis
Manpreet Singh, Manish Kumar Singla, Murodbek Safaraliev, Kulwinder Singh, Ismoil Odinaev, Amir Abdel Menaem
Fuel cell technology emerges as a promising green solution, offering mitigation to global warming, air pollution, and energy crises. This eco-friendly approach is witnessing a surge in adoption within the automotive sector, with fuel cell buses, cars, scooters, forklifts, and more, becoming increasingly prevalent. The automobile industry has been rapidly advancing fuel cell technology, inching closer to the commercialization of fuel cell vehicles. As various technical hurdles are surmounted and costs are reduced, fuel cell vehicles are poised to become a competitive force in the automobile market, presenting an excellent solution for environmental sustainability and energy efficiency. This review paper delves into the fundamentals of fuel cells, their characteristics, and their applications in the automotive realm, exploring their prospects in comparison to traditional technologies. Furthermore, it sheds light on the existing research and industrial developments in hydrogen and fuel cell technologies. Additionally, a comprehensive comparison is provided between various fuel cell cars that have already been commercialized, enabling readers to understand the current market landscape. The review also analyses the advantages and challenges associated with fuel cell technology, offering insights into its future development trajectory. Through this comprehensive exploration, readers can gain a deeper understanding of fuel cell technology and its potential in revolutionizing the automotive industry.
Fuel, cellHydrogenElectric, vehiclesRenewable, energySustainability
-next-
The Kidney Precision Medicine Project and Single-Cell Biology of the Injured Proximal Tubule
Danielle Janosevic, Thomas De Luca , Kidney Precision Medicine Project, Michael T. Eadon
Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has led to major advances in our understanding of proximal tubule subtypes in health and disease. The proximal tubule serves essential functions in overall homeostasis, but pathologic or physiologic perturbations can affect its transcriptomic signature and corresponding tasks. These alterations in proximal tubular cells are often described within a scRNA-seq atlas as cell states, which are pathophysiologic subclassifications based on molecular and morphological changes in a cell’s response to that injury compared to its native state. This review describes the major cell states defined in the Kidney Precision Medicine Project’s (KPMP) scRNA-seq atlas. The review then identifies the overlap between KPMP and other seminal works which may use different nomenclature or cluster proximal tubule cells at different resolutions to define cell state subtypes. The goal is for the reader to understand the key transcriptomic markers of important cellular injury and regeneration processes across this highly dynamic and evolving field.
chronic kidney diseaseacute, kidney injuryfailed, repairadaptive cell, statemaladaptive repair
-next-
Introducing Phosphoric Acid to Fluorinated Polyimide towards High Performance Laser Induced Graphene Electrodes for High Energy Micro-supercapacitors
Yi Zhao, Wenjing Qiao, Haozhe Wang, Yangyang Xie, Botao Teng, Jiongru Li, Yunlong Sun, Abdullah Saad Alsubaie, Tong Wan, Salah M. El-Bahy, Dapeng Cui, Zeinhom M. El-Bahy, Jing Zhang, Huige Wei, Zhanhu Guo
Micro-supercapacitors (MSCs) have wide application prospects in microelectronic fields such as wearable electronics due to merits of stable performance, high safety and easy integration. However, the relatively low energy density of MSCs limits their practical application. In this context, phosphorus and fluorine co-doped laser-induced graphene (FP-LIG) microelectrodes were fabricated from fluorinated polyimide containing phosphoric acid by laser direct writing (LDW) method. The introduced phosphoric acid slows down the decomposition of -CF3 during the LDW process, resulting in much more ordered and stable pores; meanwhile, phosphorus entered the graphene lattice to replace some carbon atoms, forming a C3PO structure, which not only stabilizes the interface between the electrode and the electrolyte and therefore achieves an enlarged working potential of 1.4 V, but also increases the wettability of the electrode. Using FP-3-LIG microelectrodes and PVA/H2SO4 as the gel electrolyte, the assembled FP-3-MSC demonstrates significantly enhanced energy density, delivering an energy density of 10.40 μWh cm-2 (@0.09 mA cm-2), 2.7 times that of F-MSC and 346.7 times that of MSC. FP-3-MSC has excellent cyclic stability, displaying an areal capacitance retention rate of above 90 % after 10,000 long cycles. In addition, FP-3-MSC demonstrates excellent flexibility, indicating promising potential in the field of flexible wearable electronics.
Micro-supercapacitorsLaser-induced, grapheneFluorinated, polyimidePhosphorus, doping
-next-
The Performance of Artificial Intelligence-based Large Language Models on Ophthalmology-related Questions in Swedish Proficiency Test for Medicine: ChatGPT-4 omni vs Gemini 1.5 Pro
Mehmet Cem Sabaner, Arzu Seyhan Karatepe Hashas, Kemal Mert Mutibayraktaroglu, Zubeyir Yozgat, Oliver Niels Klefter, Yousif Subhi
To compare the interpretation and response context of two commonly used artificial intelligence (AI)-based large language model (LLM) platforms to ophthalmology-related multiple choice questions (MCQs) in the Swedish proficiency test for medicine ("kunskapsprov för läkare") exams.
Artificial intelligence, ChatGPT-4, omniE-learningGemini 1.5, ProLarge language model, Medical education, Ophthalmology
-next-
Evaluation of Probability Distribution Methods for Flood Frequency Analysis in the Jhelum Basin of North-Western Himalayas, India
Asif Iqbal Shah, Nibedita Das 
The Kashmir Valley has frequently endured devastating floods, presenting significant challenges for flood management due to unpredictable flood magnitudes and limited pre-disaster preparedness. A major difficulty in addressing these challenges is the lack of reliable flood frequency analysis (FFA) for effective planning and mitigation. This study seeks to overcome these issues by employing a rigorous quantitative analysis of annual peak discharge data over a 51-year period (1971-2021). One key challenge was the presence of low outliers, which could compromise the integrity of the data. To address this, the Multiple Grubbs-Beck test was applied to remove these outliers before conducting FFA. The study's original achievement lies in its application of multiple distribution models which include Gumbel (EV1), Generalized Extreme Variations (GEV), Log-Normal, Log Pearson III (LP III), Gamma and Normal distribution. Goodness-of-fit tests, including Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS), Anderson-Darling (AD), and Chi-square at the 5% significance level, along with visualization techniques such as Probability plots (PP), Quantile plots (QQ), and Probabilistic distribution (PD) graphs, were used to identify the most suitable distribution methods. The Log Pearson Type III (LP-III) was identified as the best fit for the Sangam gauge site (Upper Jhelum), the gamma distribution for Ram Munshibagh (Middle Jhelum), and the Generalized Extreme Value (GEV) and LP-III for Asham (Lower Jhelum). For Sangam, the estimated discharges for 2, 5, 10, 50, 100, 150, 200, and 250-year return periods were 549.63, 1028.43, 1471.34, 2907.64, 3758.92, 4338.61, 4790.99, and 5167.23 cumecs, respectively, using LP-III. For Ram Munshibagh, the discharges were 602.13, 911.03, 1107.04, 1512.12, 1674.35, 1767.0, 1831.87, and 1881.74 cumecs using the gamma distribution. For Asham, the discharges were 685.8, 998.0, 1193.3, 1593.2, 1750.6, 1839.4, 1901.0, and 1948.0 cumecs using the GEV distribution. The findings indicate that the Jhelum River cannot accommodate excess discharge for return periods of 5 years or more, underscoring the need for enhanced flood management strategies.
Climate change, Extreme Value Theory, Flood frequency analysis, Flood hazard, Goodness of fit, Hydrological modeling, Kashmir valley
-next-
Effects of Bedroom Environment on Average Heart Rate During Sleep in Temperate Regions: A Nonlinear Analysis of Annual Variations in Healthy Males in Their Twenties with Average BMI
Noriaki OOTA, Yasuki YAMAUCHI, Gota IWASE, Masaru ABUKU, Yasuhiro HIRAGURI
Models obtained in our previous studies were adapted from a linear model. In these models, the operative temperature has a positive coefficient with respect to the average heart rate during sleep (SHR) in summer and a negative coefficient in winter. Therefore, there are limitations to using linear models to examine annual variations. This study attempted nonlinear modeling and conducted an analysis. The participants were nine healthy males in their twenties, with an average body mass index, living in a temperate region. The objective variable was SHR. The explanatory variables were the body movement rate during sleep (BM), room temperature, radiant temperature, bed microclimate temperature, and carbon dioxide concentration. In addition, the interaction effects between the bed microclimate temperature and CO2 concentration were considered because they showed significant correlations in the linear model. Results showed that the BM and SHR exhibited a positive linear correlation throughout the year. Radiant temperature showed a higher importance than room temperature in winter, as evaluated by permutation importance. SHR was lowest when room and radiant temperatures were approximately 25 [℃] to 26 [℃]; under higher or lower temperatures, the SHR increased. Additionally, when temperatures fell below 10 [℃], the trend shifted to a positive correlation. Bed microclimate temperature and SHR showed a positive correlation when exceeding 30 [℃]. The CO2 concentration and SHR exhibited a positive correlation below 1000 [ppm] during autumn and winter. Overall, a greater understanding of how environmental conditions affect SHR could enable the design of environments that promote a lower heart rate during sleep.
Nonlinear model, Explainable artificial intelligence, Partial dependence plots, Annual variation, Carbon dioxide concentration
-next-
Deep Learning assisted Femtosecond Laser-ablation Spark-induced Breakdown Spectroscopy Employed for Rapid and Accurate Identification of Bismuth Brass
Xiaoyong He, Jianchang Hu, Xiao Peng, Jun Song, Yufeng Yuan, Junle Qu
Owing to its excellent machinability and less toxicity, bismuth brass has been widely used in manufacturing various industrial products. Thus, it is of significance to perform rapid and accurate identification of bismuth brass to reveal the alloying properties. However, the analytical lines of various elements in bismuth brass alloy products based on conventional laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) are usually weak. Moreover, the analytical lines of various elements are often overlaped, seriously interfering with the identification of bismuth brass alloys. To address these challenges, developing an advanced strategy enabling to achieve ultra-high accuracy identification of bismuth brass alloys is highly desirable.
Deep learning, femtosecond, laser-ablation, spark-induced breakdown spectroscopy, Accurate identification of bismuth brass alloy, Extraction of identification contribution
-next-
Personalized food consumption detection with deep learning and Inertial Measurement Unit sensor
Lehel Dénes-Fazakas, Barbara Simon, Adám Hartvég, László Szilágyi, Levente Kovács, Amir Mosavi, György Eigner
For individuals diagnosed with diabetes mellitus, it is crucial to keep a record of the carbohydrates consumed during meals, as this should be done at least three times daily, amounting to an average of six meals. Unfortunately, many individuals tend to overlook this essential task. For those who use an artificial pancreas, carbohydrate intake proves to be a critical factor, as it can activate the insulin pump in the artificial pancreas to deliver insulin to the body. To address this need, we have developed personalized deep learning model that can accurately detect carbohydrate intake with a high degree of accuracy. Our study employed a publicly available dataset gathered by an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), which included accelerometer and gyroscope data. The data was sampled at a rate of 15 Hz, necessitating preprocessing. For our tailored to the patient model, we utilized a recurrent network comprising Long short-term memory (LSTM) layers. Our findings revealed a median F1 score of 0.99, indicating a high level of accuracy. Additionally, the confusion matrix displayed a difference of only 6 s, further validating the model’s accuracy. Therefore, we can confidently assert that our model architecture exhibits a high degree of accuracy. Our model performed well above 90% on the dataset, with most results between 98%–99%. The recurrent networks improved the problem-solving capabilities significantly, though some outliers remained. The model’s average prediction latency was 5.5 s, suggesting that later meal predictions result in extended meal progress predictions. The dataset’s limitation of mostly single-day data points raises questions about multi-day performance, which could be explored by collecting multi-day data, including night periods. Future enhancements might involve transformer networks and shorter time windows to improve model responsiveness and accuracy. Therefore, we can confidently assert that our model exhibits a high degree of accuracy.
Diabetes mellitus, Recurent neural network, Deep learning, Gesture detection, Personalized model
-next-
Vanadium- and manganese-based metal-organic frameworks for potential environmental and catalysis applications
Agata JankowskaJoanna Goscianska, Varsha Srivastava, Ulla Lassi, Junkuo Gao, Yangdan Pan, Soheila Sanati, Reza Abazari
Industrialization has significantly compromised air quality, environmental health, and human well-being. Therefore, it is highly necessary to develop efficient and cost-effective strategies to resolve the issue of environmental pollution while promoting sustainable energy production. Catalysts play a crucial role in the synthesis and conversion of valuable chemicals by providing more active sites that accelerate catalytic reactions, leading to proper activity and selectivity. However, challenges such as catalyst stability, cost-effectiveness, high surface area, reusability, and low loading amount need to be addressed. In this regard, metal organic frameworks (MOFs) could be an intelligent choice due to their tunable structure through altering metal centers and organic ligands along with their structural flexibility, high specific surface area, and diversity. These porous materials have found extensive application in heterogeneous catalysis and environmental remediation thanks to their low cost, abundance in nature and feasible preparation routes. Among first-row transition metal-based MOFs like vanadium (V)- and manganese (Mn)-containing structures have gained popularity in environmental remediation and catalysis due to their different redox states, stability, cost-effectiveness. As limited number of review articles have addressed V and Mn-containing MOFs compared to other first-row transition metals like Ni, Co, Cu and Fe, this review aims at exploring recent advancements in the V- and Mn-based MOFs, their composites, and derivatives within heterogeneous catalysis, highlighting applications in oxidative fuel desulfurization, CO2 reduction, epoxidation, hydroxylation, oxidation of organic compounds, and environmental remediation, including the adsorption and elimination of organic dyes and CO2 capture and conversion. Also, the review emphasizes the structure-performance relationship, offering new insights for overcoming existing challenges and advancing the field.
Metal-organic framework, Structural diversity, Different oxidation states, Heterogeneous catalysis, Environmental remediation, Effective photocatalysts
-next-
A novel reservoir dispatching rules extraction framework based on hybrid embedding informer
Shuai Liu, Hui Qin,Zhengyang Tang, Keyan Shen, Xu Yang, Zhiwei Zheng, Yuhua Qun, Zhiwei Jia
Accurately capturing reservoir dispatching rules is crucial for mitigating carbon emissions and preventing flooding and inundation. However, the short operational duration of certain reservoirs poses challenges in acquiring sufficient data samples for reservoir rule simulation. Furthermore, the nonlinear and fluctuating characteristics of reservoir dispatching rules present obstacles to their precise prediction. To address these challenges, this study proposes a hybrid embedding-based Informer (Heformer) dispatching rules extraction framework. Initially, extensive data series are employed for modeling to acquire a comprehensive sample dataset. Subsequently, the Heformer model, based on the Informer architecture and integrating the Dimension-Segment-Wise (DSW) strategy and feature representation strategy, is introduced for capturing reservoir dispatching rules. To assess performance of the proposed model, it is compared against several recognized state-of-the-art models. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method effectively captures the operational characteristics of reservoirs, mitigates bias impact in reservoir prediction and operation, and provides a reference for extracting dispatching rules for reservoirs
Dispatching rules, Reservoir operation, Hybrid embedding
-next-
A marine oil spill detection framework considering special disturbances using Sentinel-1 data in the Suez Canal
Lingxiao Cheng, Ying Li,Mian Qin, Bingxin Liu
The Suez Canal is a crucial international waterway due to its strategic location. The significant traffic flow not only stimulates economic development along the coast but also leads to a high frequency of oil spill accidents, which negatively impact the ecosystem and natural resources. Synthetic aperture radar (SAR) is an important remote sensing technology for monitoring oil spills, offering all-day and all-weather capabilities. However, special disturbances (SD) caused by imaging conditions, sensor parameters, and other factors can affect image quality, reducing the accuracy and efficiency of oil spill detection. To mitigate the negative impact of SD, an original oil spill detection framework was developed, based on the analysis of these disturbances, to detect oil spills at the northern entrance of the Suez Canal from 2015 to 2019. The framework included an advantageous featureset with SD adaptability and designs a classifier, Boosting Random Support Vector Machine (BRSVM), which combines a boosting strategy with Support Vector Machine (SVM). The study found that the superiority of the featureset was pivotal in oil spill detection. The classification accuracy and F-1 score achieved by BRSVM were 94.72 % and 95.33 %, respectively, outperforming other algorithms in functionality. These results indicate that the proposed framework holds significant potential for applications requiring large-scale, automated oil spill detection.
Oil spill detection, SAR data, Special disturbances, Advantageous featureset, Boosting strategy
-next-
Experimental Demonstration of Free-Space Optical Communication under 2 km Urban Atmosphere using Adaptive Fiber Coupling
Ziting Pan, Ziqiang Li, Yuting Li, Guan Huang,Fan Zou, Likang Pan , Mingyan Lin, Feng Li, Chao Geng, Xinyang Li
Satellite-to-ground communication, quantum communication, and intra-city communication all benefit from free-space optical communication. Coupling as much light power as possible into optical fibers is crucial for free-space optical communication, where atmospheric turbulence and platform sway will affect the coupling effect. This paper introduces a scheme for free-space optical communication utilizing a single adaptive fiber coupler, which can mitigate turbulence and other disturbances at minimal cost. Experimental results in a 2 km urban atmosphere show that our method can increase coupling power by up to 20% for the majority of the time. Moreover, the bit error rate of communication reduces from 4.53×10-4 to 3.80×10-8 after implementing the closed-loop correction and we also demonstrate video transmission. Additionally, this scheme can be combined with coherent beam combining and spatial diversity techniques, offering a comprehensive solution to both tip/tilt aberration and scintillation issues.
fiber coupling, free-space optical communication, atmospheric turbulence
-next-
Effects of long-term exposure to high-altitude on episodic memory: The moderating role of daytime dysfunction
Getong Tao, Hailin Ma, Yanjie Su
Chronic exposure to high-altitude hypoxic environments may influence short-term memory and working memory. However, its impact on long-term memory, specifically episodic memory, remains understudied. In this study, we systematically investigated the effects of long-term exposure to high altitude (3650 m) on episodic memory, including item memory and source memory. Moreover, we examined the moderating role of daytime dysfunction on the relationship between altitude and episodic memory. In total, 97 participants were enrolled in the study: 49 were from the high altitude (HA) group, comprising those born and raised in low altitude (LA) areas (< 500 m) and had migrated to HA for 2∼3 years after turning 18; and 48 were from the LA group, who had never lived at high altitude. Episodic memory was evaluated using a what-when-where task, whereas daytime dysfunction was measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. For item memory, hit rate and correct rejection rate were significantly lower in the HA group relative to the LA group. For source binding memory, the performance in what-where binding and what-when-where binding were decreased in the HA group, but the what-when binding did not differ between the two groups. Furthermore, the effects of altitude on hit rate, what-where binding, and what-when-where binding were significantly pronounced in individuals with higher levels of daytime dysfunction. These findings suggest that long-term exposure to high-altitude hypoxic environments influences episodic memory performance, including item recognition and source-binding memory. Specifically, spatial source memory is affected by high-altitude exposure, whereas temporal source memory remains unaffected. Moreover, these results highlight the importance of considering sleep quality, especially good daytime function, in maintaining optimal episodic memory function following chronic exposure to high altitudes.
high-altitude exposure, episodic memory, item memory, source memory, daytime dysfunction
-next
Machine learning forecast of surface solar irradiance from meteo satellite data
Alessandro Sebastianelli, Federico Serva , Andrea Ceschini, Quentin Paletta, Massimo Panella,Bertrand Le Saux 
In order to facilitate the shift towards sustainable practices and to support the transition to renewable energy, there is a requirement for faster and more accurate predictions of solar irradiance. Surface solar energy predictions are essential for the establishment of solar farms and the enhancement of energy grid management. This paper presents a novel approach to forecast surface solar irradiance up to 24 h in advance, utilizing various machine and deep learning architectures. Our proposed Machine Learning (ML) models include both point-based (1D) and grid-based (3D) solutions, offering a comprehensive exploration of different methodologies. Our forecasts leverage two days of input data to predict the next day of solar exposure at country scale. To assess the models’ performance, extensive testing is conducted across three distinct geographical areas of interest: Austria (where models were trained and validated), Switzerland and Italy (where we tested our models under a transfer learning regime), and sensitivity to the season is also discussed. The study incorporates comparisons with established benchmarks, including state-of-the-art numerical weather predictions, as well as fundamental predictors such as climatology and persistence. Our findings reveal that the ML-based methods clearly outperform traditional forecasting techniques, demonstrating high accuracy and reliability in predicting surface solar irradiance. This research not only contributes to the advancement of solar energy forecasting but also highlights the effectiveness of machine learning and deep learning models in being competitive to conventional methods for short-term solar irradiance predictions.
Surface irradiance, Forecasting, Deep learning, Meteosat, Solar energy
-next-
Strategic roadmapping to accelerate and risk-mitigate enabling innovations: A generalizable method and a case illustration for marine renewable energy
J.V. Sinfield, A. Ajmani, W. McShane
Understanding technological evolution and its implications is increasingly important as the public and private sectors harness next generation technologies to address society's major challenges. Current roadmapping methods for these enabling innovations suffer from several limitations and often shed more light on technology viability than adoptability, leading many to frame related pursuits as unpredictable high-risk, high-reward activities. However, recent research highlights that the risk associated with developing enabling innovations depends more on the approach to pursuit than the technology itself. Drawing on this perspective, we put forward a strategic roadmapping approach that overcomes historical limitations by: 1.) framing technological advance as a complex socio-technical transition and 2.) drawing upon related patterns of high-impact innovation to inform unique roadmapping analyses. The result – the Enabling Innovation Strategic Roadmapping method – examines technical, economic, and socio-cultural barriers to progress to define windows of opportunity in which viable technological capabilities can be matched to adoption-ready needs within and beyond the motivating sector, fostering advance toward a long-term vision, technology convergence, valley of death avoidance, and means to influence ecosystem evolution. To illustrate the methodology, we develop a strategic roadmap for marine hydrokinetic energy technologies that could support the advent of a marine renewable energy economy.
Enabling technology, Technology roadmapping, Socio-technical transition, Marine renewable energy, Innovation science, Strategic roadmapping
-next-
Neural network developments: A detailed survey from static to dynamic models
Preeti Raj Verma, Navneet Pratap Singh, Deepika Pantola, Xiaochun Cheng
Dynamic Neural Networks (DNNs) are an evolving research field within deep learning (DL), offering a robust, adaptable, and efficient alternative to the conventional Static Neural Networks (SNNs). Unlike SNNs, which maintain a fixed architecture of layers, nodes, and connections throughout their operation, DNNs introduce flexibility by allowing modifications to their structure during inference. This adaptability enables DNNs to adjust to the input dynamically, enhancing performance and efficiency. This paper comprehensively analyzes SNNs and DNNs, summarizing their advantages, limitations, and architectures’ impact on network performance and accuracy. In addition, it categorizes SNNs and DNNs, providing a comprehensive analysis of different models such as Multilayer Perceptron (MLP), VGG16, EfficientNet, GoogLeNet, DenseNet, CondenseNet, Dynamic Convolutions, and SkipNet along with their applications in various fields. The paper also delivers an extensive quantitative and qualitative analysis of existing literature in the DNN spectrum, shedding light on the advancements in this field. Furthermore, the computational expenditure in terms of FLOPs, parameters, and model size is minimized in dynamic models, making them more efficient, adaptable, and scalable. The conclusion emphasizes the critical need for ongoing research and innovation in DNNs across multiple disciplines, including Computer Vision, NLP, Robotics, Healthcare, and Weather Forecasting.
Dynamic Neural Networks (DNNs), DenseNet, CondenseNet, SkipNet, Dynamic convolutions, Convolutional neural networks(CNN)
-next-
Artificial intelligence learning platform in a visual programming environment: exploring an artificial intelligence learning model
Jui-Hung Chang,Chi-Jane Wang,Hua-Xu Zhong, Chin-Feng Lai, Hsiu-Chen Weng, Yu-Kai Zhou, Hoe-Yuan Ong
Amidst the rapid advancement in the application of artificial intelligence learning, questions regarding the evaluation of students’ learning status and how students without relevant learning foundation on this subject can be trained to familiarize themselves in the field of artificial intelligence are important research topics. This study employed the use of a self-built AI platform (Ladder) for students to systematically learn and apply AI learning model established by the partial least squares (PLS) method to investigate the influence between variables (learning attitudes, self-regulated learning, AI anxiety, individual impact, computational thinking abilities, cognitive styles). This study was particularly conducted in the Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering of a top national university in Southern Taiwan. The valid data were collected from 65 students (55 male students; 10 female students). Furthermore, this study demonstrated the relationship between cognitive style, self-regulated learning and computational thinking. For the first time, it explored the impact of AI anxiety and completed existing research on it. The results of this study show that interest in learning positively affects learning attitudes. In addition, learning attitudes have a positive influence on each individual’s performance. Based on multiple theories and the artificial intelligence learning platform, the model proposed in this study effectively understood students’ learning status.
Artificial intelligence, Cognitive style, Computational thinking, Self-regulated learning, Learning platform,
-next-
Embedded Artificial Intelligence
Bin Li
What is embedded artificial intelligence? Why do you need embedded artificial intelligence? How to implement embedded artificial intelligence? What are the challenges of implementing embedded artificial intelligence? With these questions, we defined the topics to be studied in this book. After comparing the two implementation modes of embedded artificial intelligence: cloud computing mode and local mode, we clarified the necessity and technical challenges of implementing the local mode and outlined the five essential components needed to overcome these challenges and achieve true embedded AI.
Embedded AI
-next-
Artificial Intelligence: Problems, Solutions, and Prospects
B. A. Kobrinskii
In the rapidly developing artificial intelligence, the explainability of the proposed hypotheses and confidence in the outstanding solutions remain important problem areas. The article discusses various approaches to explainability for users of the recommendations of computer systems that they receive. The differences in the concepts of transparency and explainability are pointed out. The concepts of interpretation of results in a formal form and meaningful explanation are compared. Particular attention is paid to the need for a directed explanation for users of different levels of decision-making. The problem of trust in artificial intelligence systems is presented from various positions, which should collectively formulate the integral trust of users to the solutions obtained. Briefly, promising areas of development of artificial intelligence discussed at a Russian conference on artificial intelligence are indicated.
artificial intelligence, explainable artificial intelligence,transparency of artificial intelligence,interpretation of results,trusted artificial intelligence
-next-
From artificial intelligence to semi-creative inorganic intelligence: a blockchain-based bioethical metamorphosis
Antonio Araújo
The label "artificial intelligence" (AI) hides a contradiction in terms, i.e. it classifies as artificial an intelligent existence whose skeleton/hardware is not carbon-based. An inorganic intelligence that springs from human intelligence experiences a different (silicon-based) but not essentially unequal tangible nature: both of them are generative/creative. Building on this observation, the paper reveals and explores its core insight, semi-creative inorganic intelligence (S-CII), which is at once a scientific policy directive and the (complex) moral condition of limited creativity that non-human intelligence should assume to avoid the human species extinction. But how to implement such a perspective? Behold a problematisation that led to a brief expedition into scientific research conceived at the human condition’s frontier, in order to delineate the dangers that gravitate a full AI. As the narrative unfolds, a bioethics-inspired solution is proposed and demonstrated: the feasibility of using blockchain as a regulatory mechanism for S-CII.
Artificial intelligence,Cybersecurity,digital democracy,Blockchain,Bioethics,Semi-creative inorganic intelligence
-next-
Affective neuroscience theory and attitudes towards artificial intelligence
Christian Montag,Raian Ali,Kenneth L. Davis
Artificial intelligence represents a key technology being inbuilt into evermore products. Research investigating attitudes towards artificial intelligence surprisingly is still scarce, although it becomes apparent that artificial intelligence will shape societies around the globe. To better understand individual differences in attitudes towards artificial intelligence, the present study investigated in n = 351 participants associations between the Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales (ANPS) and the Attitudes towards Artificial Intelligence framework (ATAI). It could be observed that in particular higher levels of SADNESS were associated with higher negative attitudes towards AI (fearing AI). The findings are discussed in this work from an evolutionary perspective because primary emotional systems—according to Affective Neuroscience Theory—represent tools for survival, which have been homologously conserved across mammalian species including homo sapiens.
Artificial intelligence,Trust,SADNESS,FEAR,Attitudes towards artificial intelligence,Personality,Big five,Primary emotional systems
-next-
Folk Beliefs of Artificial Intelligence and Robots
Liying Xu, Yuyan Zhang, Feng Yu, Jiahua Wu, Xiaojun Ding
Artificial intelligence (AI) and robots have the potential to revolutionize society, with impacts ranging from the broadest reaches of industry and policy to the minutiae of daily life. The extent to which AI-based technologies can bring benefits to human society depends on how people perceive them––folk beliefs of AI and robots. The present paper aims to gain insights into people’s perspectives on artificial intelligence and robots by examining their folk beliefs. In Study 1, we explored folk beliefs regarding general artificial intelligence and robots using metaphor nomination (Phase 1, N = 99), factor analysis (Phase 2, N = 267), and semantic analysis (Phase 3). Results indicated three primary folk beliefs for AI: the unknown, the assistants, and the machines. For robots, three primary folk beliefs emerged: the assistants, the companions, and the tools. In Study 2, we investigated folk beliefs about robots in various application contexts through free listing (Phase 1, N = 82) and factor analysis (Phase 2, N = 300). Results revealed four folk beliefs for companion robots: companion ability, applicable target, social consequence, and technology. Additionally, four folk beliefs emerged for education robots: educational ability, advantage, disadvantage, and technology, while medical robots were associated with five folk beliefs: medical ability, advancement, social consequence, disadvantage, and technology. This research is the first step in examining how ordinary people conceptualize artificial intelligence and robots through folk theories, unveiling several directions for future research reference. Our findings also revealed that lay people’s perceptions of artificial intelligence and robots are shaped by social cognitive processes. This also implies that the methods of folk theories can be utilized to investigate people’s social cognitive processes. The current study carries practical significance for the designers and manufacturers of AI and robots, guiding aspects such as the professional capabilities of artificial intelligence and robots, potential negative social consequences, and the needs of specific user groups.
Artificial intelligence,Robot,Folk belief,MetaphorFree listing
-next-
Performance of Artificial Intelligence Content Detectors Using Human and Artificial Intelligence-Generated Scientific Writing
Madelyn A. Flitcroft MD, Salma A. Sheriff BS, Nathan Wolfrath BS, Ragasnehith Maddula BS, Laura McConnell, Yun Xing PhD & Anai N. Kothari MD,Krista L. Haines DO, Sandra L. Wong MD, Anai N. Kothari MD
A total of 449 original articles met inclusion criteria and were evaluated to determine the likelihood of being generated by AI. Each detector also evaluated 47 AI-generated articles by using titles from ASO articles. Human-written articles had an average probability of being AI-generated of 9.4% with significant differences between the detectors. Only two (0.4%) human-written manuscripts were detected as having a 0% probability of being AI-generated by all three detectors. Completely AI-generated articles were evaluated to have a higher average probability of being AI-generated (43.5%) with a range from 12.0 to 99.9%.
Artificial intelligence,Generative AI,ChatGPT,AI detection
-next-
Generative artificial intelligence
Leonardo Banh, Gero Strobel
Recent developments in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) have enabled new paradigms of machine processing, shifting from data-driven, discriminative AI tasks toward sophisticated, creative tasks through generative AI. Leveraging deep generative models, generative AI is capable of producing novel and realistic content across a broad spectrum (e.g., texts, images, or programming code) for various domains based on basic user prompts. In this article, we offer a comprehensive overview of the fundamentals of generative AI with its underpinning concepts and prospects. We provide a conceptual introduction to relevant terms and techniques, outline the inherent properties that constitute generative AI, and elaborate on the potentials and challenges. We underline the necessity for researchers and practitioners to comprehend the distinctive characteristics of generative artificial intelligence in order to harness its potential while mitigating its risks and to contribute to a principal understanding.
Generative AI,Artificial intelligence,Deep learning,Deep generative models,Large language models
-next-
Artificial Intelligence in Operating Room Management
Valentina Bellini, Michele Russo, Tania Domenichetti, Matteo Panizzi, Simone Allai, Elena Giovanna Bignami
This systematic review examines the recent use of artificial intelligence, particularly machine learning, in the management of operating rooms. A total of 22 selected studies from February 2019 to September 2023 are analyzed. The review emphasizes the significant impact of AI on predicting surgical case durations, optimizing post-anesthesia care unit resource allocation, and detecting surgical case cancellations. Machine learning algorithms such as XGBoost, random forest, and neural networks have demonstrated their effectiveness in improving prediction accuracy and resource utilization. However, challenges such as data access and privacy concerns are acknowledged. The review highlights the evolving nature of artificial intelligence in perioperative medicine research and the need for continued innovation to harness artificial intelligence’s transformative potential for healthcare administrators, practitioners, and patients. Ultimately, artificial intelligence integration in operative room management promises to enhance healthcare efficiency and patient outcomes.
Artificial intelligence,Machine learning,Operating room,Management,Perioperative
-next-
Artificial intelligence and Italian culture: an understanding of how artificial intelligence can transform the radiation therapy landscape
Francesca De Felice
The aim is to support the perception of artificial intelligence in the radiation therapy landscape.
Artificial intelligence,Machine learning,Radiation therapy,Cancer,Treatment,Model,Omica
-next-
Artificial Intelligence and Its Application in Numerical Weather Prediction
S. A. Soldatenko
Artificial intelligence is one of the most popular, frequently discussed, and, meanwhile, ambiguous and controversial metaphorical concepts, which defines a scientific direction in computer science that studies the techniques for gaining knowledge, their computer representation, transformation, and application. Presently, it is intensively penetrating into many areas of human activities, including hydrometeorological ones. The concept of artificial intelligence, the history of its origin, and its methods and technologies are considered. The author analyzes the studies related to the use of artificial intelligence in short- and medium-range weather forecasting, including the collection and quality control of meteorological information, assimilation of data in order to generate initial conditions for numerical weather prediction models, development of forecast models and parameterization schemes for physical processes, postprocessing and physical-statistical interpretation of the output data of numerical weather prediction models.
artificial intelligence,hydrometeorological activities,weather forecasting,machine learning,neural networks
-next-
The regulation of artificial intelligence
Giusella Finocchiaro
Before embarking on a discussion of the regulation of artificial intelligence (AI), it is first necessary to define the subject matter regulated. Defining artificial intelligence is a difficult endeavour, and many definitions have been proposed over the years. Although more than 70 years have passed since it was adopted, the most convincing definition is still nonetheless that proposed by Turing; in any case, it is important to be mindful of the risk of anthropomorphising artificial intelligence, which may arise in particular from its very definition. Once we have established the subject matter regulated, we must ask ourselves whether lawmakers should pursue an approach that seeks to regulate artificial intelligence as a whole, or whether by contrast they should regulate applications of artificial intelligence in specific sectors or individual areas. The proposal for a regulation on artificial intelligence published on 21 April 2021 implements the former approach whilst also pursuing geopolitical goals. After providing an initial overview of the notion of artificial intelligence, this article investigates the geopolitical context to the proposal for a regulation, and then goes on to illustrate the regulatory model embraced by the proposal as well as related critical aspects.
AI definition,AI regulation,European approach,Geopolitical context
-next-
Artificial Intelligence Perceptions and Life Satisfaction
Tim Hinks
The paper estimates whether there is any relationship between life satisfaction and people’s perceptions towards artificial intelligence. Using data from 39 European countries collected in 2021, it is consistently found that people with negative perceptions report lower life satisfaction. This finding is robust across a number of robustness checks. This provides further evidence that people may fear some new technologies, in this case artificial intelligence, which adds weight to governments needing to establish moratoriums to openly discuss what the objectives of new science, technologies and innovations are and how best to manage and steer policy and regulation to achieve these objectives.
Life satisfaction,Artificial intelligence,automation,Fear
-next-
Postdigital Duoethnography: An Inquiry into Human-Artificial Intelligence Synergies
Alexios Brailas
In this article, I explore the evolving affordances of artificial intelligence technologies. Through an evocative dialogue with ChatGPT, a form of a postdigital duoethnography between a human and an artificial intelligence algorithm, I discuss issues of knowledge production, research methods, epistemology, creativity, entropy, and self-organization. By reflecting on my own lived experience during this dialogue, I explore how human-artificial intelligence synergies can facilitate new insights and amplify human creative potential. As human-artificial intelligence entanglements activate multiple possibilities, I emphasize how understanding the impact of technology on individuals and communities becomes a critical challenge. In an era where the postdigital becomes the dominant narrative of science and education, the human mind will never be the same again. However, it is not given how human beings and artificial intelligence technologies are going to coevolve as parts of a complex postdigital confluence. Although I make no specific prediction of the future, I make the call for a relationship between humans and technology, informed by complex living systems epistemology, that will promote a more empowering postdigital narrative for individuals and communities. To this direction, this article introduces a methodological framework for the practice of postdigital duoethnography.
Postdigital,Duoethnography,Nomadic,Epistemology,Artificial intelligence,Knowledge production,Systems thinking
